Our goal is to get to a billion people
in our audience and then to be able to
stratify and know what exactly is this
person an expert on? And it might be,
you know, even something like sneakers.
You have some people who are influencers
and kind of early adopters. And if
you're able to find that audience and
interview them first, the insights are
much more valuable. And we can learn
across all of the interviews that we do.
We build profiles of people and as we do
more interviews in the platform and then
we can search and find the right person.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Okay, today we're sitting down with
Alfred Wahlforss, founder and CEO of
Listen Labs. Listen is an AI-first
customer research platform that can run
thousands of voice
You launched about a year ago and you
now serve 20% of the Fortune 500
including iconic brands like Microsoft,
Anthropic, Sweetgreen, NBC and others.
Um and Constantine, I'm very very
excited to sit down with you today and
talk about market research and how it's
getting transformed with AI.
>> Yeah, thank you for having me.
>> Maybe just to get started. So you are
building an AI-enabled platform that
scales market research. What does that
mean?
>> Yeah, so we have this AI agent that can
understand your customers better than
you can. Um and the way we do that is by
talking to them. So to give you an
example, you can ask a question like,
"How can you improve courses on
boarding?" And then Listen will create
an interview guide um which is an
instructions for the agent to make the
interviews. And then we have an
audience. We have 30 million
participants. We can find pretty much
anyone from an oncologist to a software
engineer. And we'll go and actually talk
to them and have hundreds of those
interviews, and then analyze the data,
give you recommendations. And now the
final step that we're just launching in
a couple months is simulation. So, after
you've done tens of thousands of
interviews in the platform, can you
predict how your customers will answer
questions in the future? Put it another
way, as we get closer to AGI,
it will be easier to build things, but
the hard part will know what to build.
And that's what we're building at
Listen.
>> Awesome. Do you have any favorite
customer stories?
>> Um yeah, so Chubbies is one of our
customers.
>> Like the shorts brand?
>> And they've been Yeah, they've been like
one of our early customers.
>> What do they use you for?
>> They use us for everything. So, a lot of
marketing testing, for testing shirts to
understand
um
what products perform well and what
doesn't. And one of my favorite examples
is they discovered that chest hair
interfaces really poorly with one of the
materials they have. So, it's like
really uncomfortable to wear one of
their shirts, and they changed the
shirt, and it became like radically more
comfor- comfortable.
Um
So, we solve, you know, the small things
to the big things. Manscaped um changed
their Super Bowl ad uh with insights
from from Listen. So,
>> Never heard of that, but I'm not going
to ask.
Uh
>> Huge. So, you you got the men's hair
market covered. [laughter]
>> Yes, that's our niche.
>> Shaping to clothing.
>> That's right.
>> Wow.
>> We do other things. Uh Skims is one of
our customers as well.
>> [laughter]
>> Don't know what you're talking about,
but I can I I know context clues, so
>> [laughter]
>> That's awesome. Um I'd love to
understand as as you framed it, as we
get closer to this AGI future, um one of
the questions I have is, you know,
traditionally I've always been very
skeptical actually of surveys because um
people get paid to take surveys, so you
already got a selection bias issue.
Um
the things that people say they would do
uh or the the way that they describe how
they would behave is different from how
they actually behave in practice. And
so, I guess I come from the school of
thoughts where like actual just
telemetry in the real world matters so
much more than asking people about what
they would do. And so, I'm I'm curious
what you think of that and how you think
AI or Listen Labs can help bridge that
gap.
>> Yeah, and so we've done a lot of
research on this.
One of the things we've done with
surveys, for example, is
we went back to the same person and
asked them a multiple-choice survey
again and they were like radically
inconsistent. So, even if you go back to
the same person and ask them a survey
question
in a multiple-choice fashion, they're
much more inconsistent.
But, we did the same thing with Listen
when you have actually have to think and
you have to really reason through your
answer and then you're much more
consistent
with
at least how you answer the same
question.
And then we're constantly tracking, for
example, with with Chubbies when we test
their different shirts, we couple months
later look back and see how did that
perform with the actual sales data.
And I think it depends on different use
cases. I agree that AB test is kind of
the the holy grail, but in practice it
becomes really difficult to get right
because you need a very large volume of
users
um
and it's it's really useful to have some
kind of input than no input at all.
>> Does Listen do
uh voice-to-text as in the actual
customer who's answering the survey can
speak their answer and then you guys
transcribe it? Does it also do
text-to-voice as in it's a two-way
conversation? What does Listen start
with and what does it finish with for
the user experience?
>> Yeah, so it's essentially a Zoom call
that you have with the agent. So, you're
on video and you can also detect their
emotions. So, that's another way to
bridge the gap between what they say and
how they actually think and feel. So, it
looks at your eyes, the way you say it,
uh um and that's
kind of much closer to how you actually
behave in the real world.
>> And have you seen Persona's point that
actually having the person's face and
their emotions and their voice and
whatnot yields more
uh
engagement, truthfulness, uh have have
we been able to have any studies or or
at least data to point in that
direction?
>> Yeah, specifically with advertising,
um it's a huge benefit because
you might have people say on a Likert
scale, which is like a, you know,
five questions that you click, are you
extremely likely to, you know, buy this
product, um
versus
when you you might have very high scores
on a survey question like that, but when
someone
also reacts very enthusiastically, it's
going to be like perform much higher. Uh
and we've seen that those ads then
perform better in performance marketing,
for example, on on Meta and and
LinkedIn.
>> And can you, if you're the customer and
you commission this and you get all this
response, can you actually click in and,
if you ever wanted to, watch the
interview to get that level of
granularity?
>> Yeah, so we built the platform around
traceability, so that for every data
point you can always click and then look
at the video or see the quote, um
so you know that AI is not just
hallucinating, kind of where it's coming
from.
>> That's awesome.
Makes sense.
>> How did you come up with the idea to
build this?
>> Um so, my co-founder and I actually
built a consumer app, uh
and
>> That did what?
>> viral. It was called, um a BFake, so
you could create an AI avatar of
yourself. It was an early version of uh
the ChatGPT
images, and you could fine-tune Stable
Diffusion, and put yourself in the
world. And that ended up going super
viral, and overnight we We 20,000 users.
And we were also kind of experimenting
with different ways of using AI. So, we
built this AI interview for ourselves
because we had a bunch of questions of
how we had we had a ton of churn, so we
wanted to understand why um
how they thought about our positioning,
different use cases, and it was really
useful for us.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's how we got started.
>> Maybe just walk us through how the how
the industry is changing before and
after Listen Labs. Like, historically,
let's say you're somebody with an app
with 20,000 users. You don't understand
how users are using the app, what they
want next, why they're churning.
Historically, how how did people go
about doing that?
>> Yeah, so what we discovered was that
there already is survey tools that are
pretty old school, like Qualtrics.
Um but then there's also this very large
services industry because it becomes
harder and harder, especially if you
want to do uh market research where you
want to talk to your prospective
customers, not your current customers.
It becomes harder and harder to do that
as you scale. So, that's a multi-billion
dollar industry, and
it's what they do is come up with
questions to ask, which is an academic
subject in and of itself. It's actually
really hard to know, like, how do you
ask questions to your point that get to
um how someone actually will behave. You
can't just ask, like, how much are you
willing to pay for this? Um there's
different methodologies that work better
than than others. To finding the
audience, how do you source the
participants? To then like analyze
hundreds of these calls. And
in the traditional industries, like CPG,
uh even in Microsoft, they spend tens of
millions of dollars on focus groups to
bring people in a room and interview
them, and we can help speed that up much
faster.
>> Okay, so that's the old world of how
this used to be done.
Um maybe describe the new world, and
then it seems to me that there are
obvious kind of first-order benefits.
Like, it's probably much much
probably much more cost effective, but
there's probably also less obvious
benefits.
Maybe just talk about talk about some of
those benefits of you know, what is it
like when you actually do AI first
market or customer research?
>> Yeah, so
most decisions that that gets made are
not based on the customer input.
Right? And
the reason for that is
it's just a lot of friction to even talk
to customers. So, when you can lower the
barriers of talking to customers, you
end up making much smarter decisions.
So, the speed advantage is actually
huge.
For us, you can get input within 5
minutes from real people and it's really
magical experience when you see hundreds
of people populate in your like
interview
um
and so that's one thing and because it's
asynchronous, it's also
much more affordable. So, you can pay
people much less than if you would have
to run like synchronous interviews. So,
as actually that's an interesting thing
that people often ask us like
do people even like being interviewed by
an AI? And the objective answer is yes,
because you can pay them less to talk to
an AI than to talk to a actual
interviewer.
Um
>> Why is that?
>> I think it's mostly because it's
asynchronous and people are very busy,
but then also
>> Lower pressure.
>> Yeah, lower pressure. You can kind of go
on and off um
We've also found that people are more
honest talking to an AI. We've had
people really open up. It's a very
therapeutic experience because it's a
non-judgmental entity that's really
interested in you and we can also have
sensitive conversations like
interviewing kids um
how they react to different products and
and so
I think that's another advantage as well
that people can be brutally honest
talking to the AI.
>> Hm. Okay, so historically for example,
if you want to do research on the kids
market, very, very hard to access that
market. Is that a regulatory thing? Is
that a scheduling thing?
>> Yeah, it's
you need parental consent.
Um you know, kids are really busy. They
go to school. They have extracurricular
activities. How do you find time with
them?
Um you need to find the right kind of
kids. Like one of the things we realized
is the audience is extremely important.
And that's actually where we spend 80%
of our engineering resources. Every
company is driven by
a power law and customer segmentation.
So, even a product like Sweetgreen,
which you would think is for everyone,
the right audience is typically urban,
high household income, mostly female.
And by the way, they need to know what
seed oils are, which only like 1% of the
population does.
And
then you find that some people go to
Sweetgreen every single day, and that's
80% of their revenue. So, if you can
find that segment, um
the research is so much more actionable.
>> Yeah, there's probably a network effect
to it as well, where when you get above
a certain scale and people use it, you
can access the same kind of person that
otherwise might be really difficult to
access or
maybe it's a scale economy. Something
along the lines of accessing those
really really specific people that are
really valuable for the type of product
that you're trying to introduce.
>> Yeah. Um
It's really about you know, we have our
goal is to get to a billion people
in our audience, and then to be able to
stratify and know
what exactly
is this person an expert on. And it
might be, you know, even something like
sneakers.
You have some people who are influencers
and kind of early adopters. And if
you're able to find that audience and
interview them first,
the insights are much more valuable. And
we can learn across all of the
interviews that we do. So we build
profiles of people
as we do more interviews in the platform
and then we can search and find the
right person.
>> So someone might say in a totally
unrelated interview, "I'm a total
sneaker head." And you can keep that in
the database on that person and then
when Nike or what have you is launching
a new product line, you can offer that
person up.
>> That's right.
>> That's amazing.
>> And that was not possible to to do
before
because it was usually like separate
entities and it would be a very manual
process where you would have a an email
list and you would just spam email.
>> I've been on the receiving end of those.
Yeah, they're terrible.
>> And one of the problems with that is
that you then need to have a extensive
screening process. So
you have something called an incidence
rate which can be 10% which means only
one in 10 people gets qualified to even
take the interview.
And that causes significant churn on
these databases because it's really
annoying to
be turned out 10 times to even get paid
the first time.
>> Why do these brands even need you for
access if let's take Sweetgreen.
Sweetgreen knows who that 80% is. Can't
they just reach them? Don't they have
direct relationships with them already?
>> Yeah. So
they can
and we do that as well. We connect it to
their CRM and they can
um send that out but then the really
interesting part is how do you talk to
prospective customers? People who also
may not be kind of current power law
users and how do you compare those two?
And then also what we found is that
the CRM is typically really unorganized
and sometimes there's also like reg-
regulatory issues. If you're at Google,
you can't just send emails to people who
use Gmail and it it gets much easier to
use the an external third party.
>> And you run the risk of spam which can
get you totally blocked. I I've seen
that at some of our companies over the
years where, you know, you do outbound
and then eventually you're in the Google
filter and next thing you know, you're
in Microsoft purgatory. I guess going
through you guys, you don't have to deal
with that.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> It's cool.
>> What does this mean for the McKinsey's
or whoever's of the world that are, you
know, the people that are building the
hundred slide decks that, you know,
reach 3,000 people to reach some set of
insights?
>> Sonia? Wasn't that your former life?
>> You know, no, Constantine, but I'm glad
that that's what you think of me.
>> Isn't that what banking does?
>> [laughter]
>> Um we we hired consultants.
>> Ah, I got you.
>> these people.
>> Got it. [laughter] Got it.
>> Um so I was, you know, I was a layer on
top of the layer on top of the layer.
>> Okay, got it. Okay.
>> Uh I was even more redundant. Um but
what does it mean for all these people?
Uh do they still have a role to play in
this new future?
>> Yeah, I think AI is changing all roles
uh very quickly and
we work a lot with Bain,
for example, so
they use us to speed up their
traditional processes. And I think they
still have a a role to play. I think
traditional services and being able to
then implement these changes is still
extremely valuable, but
a lot of margins are going to to drop
and
you have to make sure you kind of
unbundle a lot of your services to maybe
allow for AI agents to to help solve
some of the problems that you would go
to traditional consulting firms before.
>> Maybe I'm an optimist here, but why
wouldn't it be more? Why wouldn't I, if
I'm running a business, say, "Oh, great.
I want to find five new areas to expand
to now that I have AI and these tools,
and I will pay you, Bain or what have
you, the same dollars. You use Listen
and just explore those new areas and
tell me where to where to build." Is
that overly optimistic?
>> No, I think it's one of those areas
where the ceiling is very high. You can
kind of learn more about your customers
and you can build more things. And so
I think I think you're right.
>> I was I was thinking the chest hair
shirt thing.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm glad that 20 minutes in you're still
thinking about chest hair, Constantine.
>> There's so many little things that I'd
love to tell the companies that I am a
consumer of. Like the smallest little
like even the way they lace these shoes.
I'd love to give that feedback.
>> This is why you're a venture capitalist.
>> Details.
Details. [laughter]
>> Um
>> We hope to live in a world that finally
works the way people want. [laughter]
>> That would be great. Please.
>> Are are you seeing any pricing
compression already hit the industry?
Like I would imagine if I am Bain's
customer, I'm thinking, well, you're
able to do this survey a lot more
efficiently now with AI than before AI.
Um
Who who's getting the benefit of that
economic surplus?
>> So because you're able to do it faster,
I would argue you you should be able to
charge more for it.
>> And is that what's actually playing out?
>> We have done some studies where we're
able to charge
hundreds of thousands of dollars to
speak to 20 doctors across eight
countries. So
maybe over the long term like the
individual interview will become more
affordable.
Um but I think you will be you'll be
doing kind of two orders magnitude more
of research. And I think what's really
exciting is also simulation, which is
something we're building now uh where
you're able to unlock the 99% of use
cases where you would never have time to
talk to real people.
>> I think that's so awesome in part
because there's so many areas where they
don't even listen to the customer. Like
medicine. There are a million little
problems
with the medical system. I hear about it
all the time. And these are
you know, they're doctors are busy
important people, but it feels like the
companies haven't even invested the time
in figuring out where all those paper
cuts are. And the doctors are really
busy, so they're not going to go
schedule an appointment and have some
long conversation and meet with some
group. But if they could do it at any
time, like in an app on their phone as
part of the normal home page app and
give feedback on their EHR or something
in the operating room or something along
those lines, that seems like a
life-saving use case for listening over
time.
>> Yeah. I think what I'm really excited
about as well is taking all those small
things and then telling another agent to
go and solve that problem. And we're
getting pulled in in this direction by
some of our customers where they will
have a churn interview and then they
will connect them if you find a bug, for
example, they'll connect that to another
coding agent to go and solve the
problem.
>> That's cool.
>> Let's talk about generative agent
simulation. Like it seems like the
entire industry has gone from market
research 1.0, you know, call call 100
people one by one, collate them
manually, to market research 2.0 AI
native where AI designs the question
track, is able to talk to thousands of
people simultaneously,
um synthesize the answers.
Um it seems like we're we're maybe
moving to market research 3.0 with
generative agent simulation. What do you
make of that? And you know, I both see
the dream of it. Um I see how synthetic
data has changed, for example,
self-driving cars.
And then I also am inherently skeptical
of it, like
is a bunch of synthetic data just
remixing what's already in the
pre-training sets and are you actually
learning anything useful or without
further? And so I'd love to I'd love to
hear your take on it and how you guys
are taking on the 3.0.
>> Yeah. And and maybe what is it too to
start.
>> Yeah.
So, the way we are building simulation
is by
interviewing a single person. Say if I
interview Konstantin for 1 hour, um I
can probably start to predict your
preferences to some degree.
>> Fascinating insights about chest hair.
>> [laughter]
>> Um and
it turns out that LLMs are quite good at
this as well. So you can essentially try
to feed in as much information as
possible on a single individual and then
in some cases we're able to get 95%
accuracy to predict how they will answer
certain questions.
>> What sorts of things can you are you
finding that you can predict well versus
can't?
>> One of the most useful um things and is
message testing. So that's the idea of
like how what what's the tagline on the
billboard? Or I was actually using it
this weekend.
So I have created a panel of our
customer base and I had to come up with
the title for a talk at a conference.
And it's like a small thing, but it
actually does matter because it will
increase conversion if people show up.
And I came up with 100 different titles
for my talk and input that into our
simulation and then
>> Oh, wow.
>> the the top talk was like twice better
than the next one and
>> Wow, cool.
>> And I I like I don't know if it's
correct,
but it certainly felt correct and it was
really helpful to have guidance
in making that decision. And I also
think like even if it's wrong, it's just
nice to make to have some help in making
a decision. It's also nice to outsource
your decisions.
>> And how does it compare to just asking
ChatGPT the same thing?
>> Yeah, so then I input the same questions
into ChatGPT and actually had one I had
another talk I did that was not so
successful
>> [laughter]
>> and I had and I input it a competitor's
or another talk that was more successful
and and I showed both of them to ChatGPT
and both of them to our simulation
and in ChatGPT it picked the wrong one.
And in our simulation it picked the
right one. So The, you know, it's early
for us. We're going to release this in a
couple of months, but
it seems like it's it's performing
better than the general models. And the
models are trained on the average
person.
>> Yeah.
>> And you want to build for a very
specific niche. And and and that's how
we can kind of essentially train the
models to follow that niche.
>> And and just to push on this cuz I think
it's so fascinating.
Like, can't you
kind of force the models into a specific
niche or personality? Like, "Hey
ChatGPT, you're a 35-year-old really
grumpy software engineer that likes
using your terminal." Like, and then it
does then take on the preferences of of
that niche. It's like it's sort of my
mental model at least. And so I I'm
actually surprised that
you know, ChatGPT wasn't able to write
arrive at the right answer and then
bootstrapping off real user data was
because ultimately it all is kind of a
reflection of of real user data, right?
And so actually what is the intuition
for for why kind of same only on
pre-trained data isn't sufficient?
>> Yeah, so we've tried many different
inputs. Um, and that certainly performs
a little bit better than just vanilla
ChatGPT, but what performs much better
is we tried credit card spend,
um, kind of behavioral data, purchasing
behavior.
Um, but what we found was the best data
set is interviews because it's more
kind of allows you to go off tangents.
It understands you can ask behavioral
questions. So also it can't just be any
interview. Like, the way you design the
questions is also really important.
Um, and the intuition I think is that
the models don't have clean data on how
a specific persona acts and how they
think.
>> It's anecdotal, but it makes perfect
sense. Because if you want to understand
someone, what better way to understand
them than asking them a lot of
questions. That's why we're all here.
>> [laughter]
>> I guess it's kind of the purpose of this
type of format.
And if you have enough people that
follow a certain group as opposed to the
average,
that can tell you a lot about other
things that they might not have
explicitly said. You know, all of AI is
this generalization of some sort of
compressed data of some sort. And so, if
you have this compression in a slightly
different part of this hyper space that
you say, "Now complete this orbital
of what everybody is thinking in this
category of person,"
you know, Listen can fill that out
because it has enough interviews.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think that you will offer that
package as a product? As in, if I wanted
to understand my customer, and for me,
for us, our customer is founders. Like,
they're very different though. So
extremely different people. Um if I
wanted to understand my customer, could
you do
active interviews, the normal Listen
Labs interviews, have a thousand or
10,000 cumulatively, and then offer a
little special purpose Listen Labs bot
that then I can use instantaneously for
any
ad hoc question?
>> Yeah, that's exactly what we what we
have.
>> Okay.
>> Um so, that's that's what we call
augmented responses. The cool part of
this as well is that it can also live in
your coding agents or your other agents.
So,
I think in the future you will want to
have almost a human API where the agents
are able to call the preferences of your
users. Um to be able to know like what
to build, how to do it, or who to invest
in, or how to help them the best.
>> Today is it all rag? Is it fine-tuned?
Is it something else? How do you take
those conversations and then combine
them with, you know, the models that
you're doing the rest of the Listen Labs
with?
>> Yeah, we um
are doing post-training typical rag as
well. Um
there's like a a bunch of different
techniques. Some of them are
proprietary, but um
yeah.
>> All right, we'll do customer interviews
on all your engineers.
Report back.
>> I'm curious what you think of
multi-agent systems and their role in
helping us kind of iteratively
use, you know, out of print time,
iterate to a better uh answer. Is that
part of how you're doing simulation or
or not?
>> Yeah, like the way we do simulation is
essentially
you have one person that you model
really really well, and then you scale
it up with a thousand people, so you
have
a representative sample.
Um and it's essentially multi-agent.
>> not having those thousand people debate
each other. That's what I'm asking.
>> Oh, yeah. No, we we don't have that yet,
but that's a good question.
>> help?
>> Potentially, but
there are these compa- other competitors
that are doing that approach more. I
think the worry is that
again, chaos theory tells us that when
things kind of compound, it it becomes
really hard to predict how the things
are going to interact with each other.
And um
you know, it's it's something we
definitely
uh should explore more, but I'm I'm a
little bit skeptical of the approach.
>> Maybe the analogy I'd make is like like
the AI council approach of, you know,
send send the same query out to three
different LLMs and then have one LLM act
as judge in synthesizing them. I do
think on average you get a slightly
better response.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool. So, where else do you see yourself
going from here then? You have
you're you're you're going from market
research 2.0 to market research 3.0 now
with kind of generative simulation. Do
you expect that 3.0 takes over as the
majority of queries over time?
Um and then what what else is ahead?
>> Yeah, I think you'll still need human
input, but I think there would be many
more use cases that are now opened up
where you can get customer input.
Um
So, for the large decisions, if you're
doing a Super Bowl ad or things like
that, you'll still need to run real
interviews.
But for the smaller things like what you
what should be the tagline for your
billboard, um
if it's a small billboard, then you can
um
use simulation to to answer that. And I
still think that there is a lot of alpha
on the core product as well
uh to improve. I mean, when we started
the the core idea was just making the
interview less annoying to go through.
Like we had an eval that looked at
repetitive questions or looked at is the
AI even able to follow the instructions?
And
with GPT-4, sometimes you would ask the
same question 100 times. Um and
in the beginning that eval was like 20%.
Now we've been able to climb that eval
to be 85%.
Um
but now we created a new eval that's
much more advanced. So it's able to
understand what are you doing on your
screen when you're screen recording or
can you skip questions that are not
relevant anymore? And now we're back at
like 20%, which I think is one of the
values that vertical AI companies can
have is that they have this proprietary
eval that they can use and essentially
climb that climb that eval. And that's
your advantage as a vertical AI company.
>> Keep pushing forward, better data,
harder problems, better data, repeat.
>> Yeah.
>> It seems to me like you're in the middle
of a very interesting
infinite loop, right? Because I mean,
fundamentally a company is figure out
what to build,
build it, figure out what to build,
build it.
>> Write code and talk to users.
>> Exactly. And and the and the build it is
coming up rapidly up in exponential.
And the figure out what to build is the
thing that you are pushing forward.
Um and then it's not only even outside
of product and engineering, the broader
loop is actually strategy execution,
strategy execution. And so much of what
AI is enabling us to do is it's making
execution
faster, cheaper, better, all these
things.
Um and the thing that you guys
fundamentally are positioning yourselves
to do as a company is the strategy part.
Um
from what to build to what to say. Is
that a fair synthesis?
>> Yeah. And um I think we'll when we have
that one person building our company,
we'll be part of that loop. Um so we'll
have a coding agent and we'll listen and
then run that in a loop. And
we'll have these autonomous
organizations.
Um
and we're excited [clears throat] for
that.
>> even the big companies though. Like back
to this idea of you can implement things
faster. Let's say you have an agent. I
mean, if you can be a big company and
we're talking in software because
software is native to us. But in
software, if you can talk to a customer,
figure out a bug, create a PR, have a
coding agent, close it,
ship it,
customer's happy.
That seems like a really important
left-hand side of the equation. Find the
bug from an actual human.
But I imagine it's the same thing in a
big atoms company. Like if you're
consumer packaged goods, if you're a
clothing, if you're any of those things,
imagine that's even more important
because you have to figure it out
because once you actually do the thing,
it's done.
>> Yeah, exactly. Like
Procter & Gamble, when they're launching
in a new market, that can be tens of
millions of dollars if not more. And you
have to make sure that that is right
when you launch. And that's one of the
reasons why they're the customers of
Listen.
>> Who has done this historically really
well? Like who are the companies that
are admired in history, have done a
great job of listening to their
customers?
Either in
the
you know, consumer space or in the
software space.
>> I think Procter & Gamble is is kind of
the archetype of best market research
organization
where they're essentially marketing
companies that are trying to figure out
what are niches that
people really care about and then build
specific brands to solve those problems.
I mean, one example is the Tide
washing machine
>> Yeah.
>> and
>> pods
>> pods that they were able to figure out
that it was really uncomfortable to use
the washing liquid and they discovered
that people wanted something that was
much more
easy to use and through customer
interviews
they found this insight, made this new
Tide pod and became really successful.
Another example which is in the Acquired
podcast when they talk about Mars they
did the first one of the first market
research studies in the 1950s where
M&M's were originally designed for being
in the used in the army.
>> Mhm.
>> Um cuz they were like a sweet treat they
don't melt in
and
they discovered through market research
that another great segment was young
kids and
they then decided to pivot the entire
like advertising strategy to focus on on
this because it doesn't melt and ruins
your furniture for example and things
like that.
>> As we progress towards this
you know, Listen Labs
future future vision of the world, what
are the things that you're confident
will work and what are the things that
you're still not sure about?
>> I'm confident that
in the future you'll still need to have
human input
because even if you have a perfect
rational being
like AGI
humans are still irrational.
>> Totally.
>> And they will still one kind of be
chaotic in their nature where they all
of a sudden get obsessed with a a new
product, you know, a new TikTok trend
that shows up and you have to change
your entire marketing strategy towards
that. And so, I think that will remain a
really huge part of how we do things. I
think I'm still um
uncertain of what level simulation will
play. I'm I'm confident that it will
work for
certain questions, but
we'll see how like how good the models
get to predicting human behavior.
>> I mean, I'd imagine that it's actually
even more important the better AI gets
to have the delta because the
competition
if companies are about serving people,
which I think we can all agree on. Like
at the end of the day, every company is
about serving humans. Um
>> Constantine, our resident humanist.
>> I I I'm I'm a humanist, absolutely. But
if companies are about serving people
cuz that's what That's why we're all
working is to help someone else in some
way, and then intelligence gets better
and better and better.
And you kind of have what the human
wants here, and the intelligence is
approaching that asymptote,
then the delta in that asymptote, which
is what is in a human's
>> mind that isn't in the AI's mind,
only becomes more important.
>> Yeah.
And Yeah, one of the things that we've
also realized is that there's, you know,
a lot of talk around what's the motive
of this AI vertical AI companies.
>> Yeah.
>> And
>> Yeah, what's your moat?
>> [laughter]
>> What is our moat?
>> We've got network effects and scale
economies.
>> Yes, we we
>> nice.
>> like we're on an episode of Acquired
right now.
>> I Hey, I'm feeling it. I'm feeling
[laughter] it right now. That's It's a
good book. Recommended.
>> Um
>> Seven Powers.
>> Yes.
>> Seven Powers love love Seven Powers. Um
yeah, on on the moats, I mean, we have
the clear moats, which are the network
effects on
the panel where you have supply and
demand dynamic. We also have
um the network effects the data moat as
we do more interviews, you
gets better simulation. And then the
product is very sticky because you have
all these interviews in your platform,
and you don't want to lose that. You
want to track things over time.
But even like the simplest things I
think in terms of product advantages,
like one of the first things that Brian
Schaer said, one of our our Sequoia
partner,
was that
founders want to build something that's
complex,
but customers want something that's
stupid simple.
And it just works.
They don't want to configure their own
workflow. They don't want to sit and
build like custom software. And just one
example of this is creating the
interview guide
is really difficult. It's actually an
academic subject. Yeah. And it's one of
the reasons why you have services firms,
because they know
what methodology to use if you want to
understand pricing or brand perception,
these kind of things.
>> You don't want to lead the witness.
>> want to lead the witness.
And it's really hard to get that right.
In the beginning, we just used the
vanilla LM models, and the customers
would create the interviews, they would
get the data back, and then they'd come
back to us really frustrated saying like
>> Yeah.
>> what is this? Like, I can't use this
data for anything. And we took the blame
for that. Now, we've trained it to
follow the best practices, so that you
always get good data out of the
interviews. And I think that's the
advantage you have as a vertical AI
company, that you can essentially train
this agent to follow
um best practices in in the work that
you do.
>> So, I want to go back to the concept of
tight bonds that you had mentioned
earlier. Um I think it's really
interesting. And so much of market
research, as I understand it today, is
almost more
um inviting people to pass judgment on
ideas that you feed them. But it seems
to me that one of the, you know,
hallucinations can be a bug, they can
also be a feature with generative AI.
And, you know, do you think we're going
to see
user research actually evolve into live
product ideation? I could almost
imagine, you know, AI inventing
solutions as customers are going about
their interview process, even helping
visualize those solutions. Are your
customers doing that already, or do you
think we're going to have a moment where
AI can I can create a Tide Pods idea in
a marketing interview anytime soon?
>> Yeah, I think it's really exciting.
Today, they do that manually, you know,
use AI to generate images of different
concepts and feed that into the
interviews. But I think specifically
also with simulation, it becomes really
powerful. So, we now have an MCP as
well, so that you can feed that into
Claude, and then you can tell Claude
like, "Hey, run listen in a loop, and
then come up with
a bunch of ideas for how to market
something or different concepts."
>> Interesting.
>> And then you can have it run like that.
>> I'm even thinking in the course of an
interview as somebody's complaining
about, you know, the Tide
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> can't I can't sound very portable, for
the AI to be, you know, live
brainstorming with you solutions, not
just listening.
>> it could look like, an image generator,
too. That'd be cool, Sonia.
>> Yeah, I think it's a good idea. You
should be on our product team.
>> [laughter]
[gasps]
>> Awesome. Well, Alfred, we really love
what you're building. Thank you for
taking the time to share insights both
on the broader market, which I think is
just so fascinating, and also what it
takes to be building in the application
layer right now. We really admire the
business that you've built, and thank
you for your continued partnership.
>> Thank you so much.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Mhm.